docs/en/deploy/Running-Alluxio-On-Yarn.md, before:

---
layout: global
title: Deploy Alluxio using YARN
nickname: Deploy Alluxio with YARN
group: Deploying Alluxio
priority: 6
---

TODO: Expand the explanation of why we prefer to run alongside YARN instead of on top. Relevant
mailing list thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/alluxio-users/KEvBE9AiJlE
TODO: Tell users how to configure Alluxio servers running on Yarn
TODO: Add troubleshooting help
- How to debug when alluxio-yarn.sh fails to bring up Alluxio servers
- How to find logs when Alluxio containers fail to start
- How to diagnose when there aren't enough YARN resources to launch Alluxio containers

## Standalone

Alluxio should be run alongside YARN so that all YARN nodes have access to a local Alluxio worker.
For YARN and Alluxio to play nicely together on the same nodes, you must partition the node's
memory and compute resources between YARN and Alluxio. To do this, first determine how much memory
and cpu will be needed by Alluxio, then subtract those resources from what YARN would otherwise use.

### Memory

In `yarn-site.xml`, set

```
yarn.nodemanager.resource.memory-mb = Total RAM - Other services RAM - Alluxio RAM
```

On Alluxio worker nodes, Alluxio RAM usage is 1GB plus the ramdisk size configured by
`alluxio.worker.memory.size`.
On Alluxio master nodes, Alluxio RAM usage is proportional to the number of files. Allocate at
least 1GB. 32GB is recommended for a production deployment.

### CPU vcores

In `yarn-site.xml`, set

```
yarn.nodemanager.resource.cpu-vcores = Total cores - Other services vcores - Alluxio vcores
```

On Alluxio worker nodes, Alluxio needs only one or two vcores.
On Alluxio master nodes, we recommend at least 4 vcores.

### Restart YARN

After updating the YARN configuration, restart YARN so that it picks up the changes:

```bash
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/sbin/stop-yarn.sh
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/sbin/start-yarn.sh
```

## Alluxio YARN integration

> YARN is not well-suited for long-running applications such as Alluxio. We recommend
following [these instructions](#Standalone.html) for running Alluxio
alongside YARN instead of as an application within YARN.

This section goes over how to run Alluxio servers (master and workers) on a Yarn
cluster.

## Prerequisites

**A running YARN cluster**

**[Alluxio downloaded locally](https://www.alluxio.org/download)**

## Configuration

To customize Alluxio master and worker with specific properties (e.g., tiered storage setup on each
worker), see [Configuration settings](Configuration-Settings.html). To ensure your configuration can be
read by both the ApplicationMaster and Alluxio master/workers, put `alluxio-site.properties` in
`/etc/alluxio/alluxio-site.properties`.

## Run Alluxio Application

Use the script `integration/yarn/bin/alluxio-yarn.sh` to start Alluxio. This script takes three arguments:

1. The total number of Alluxio workers to start. (required)
2. An HDFS path to distribute the binaries for Alluxio ApplicationMaster. (required)
3. The Yarn name for the node on which to run the Alluxio Master (optional, defaults to `${ALLUXIO_MASTER_HOSTNAME}`)

For example, to launch an Alluxio cluster with 3 worker nodes, where an HDFS temp directory is
`hdfs://${HDFS_MASTER}:9000/tmp/` and the master hostname is `${ALLUXIO_MASTER}`, you would run

```bash
$ # If Yarn does not reside in `HADOOP_HOME`, set the environment variable `YARN_HOME` to the base path of Yarn.
$ export HADOOP_HOME=<path to hadoop home>
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/bin/hadoop fs -mkdir hdfs://${HDFS_MASTER}:9000/tmp
$ ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/integration/yarn/bin/alluxio-yarn.sh 3 hdfs://${HDFS_MASTER}:9000/tmp/ ${ALLUXIO_MASTER}
```

You may also start the Alluxio Master node separately from Yarn in which case the above startup will
automatically detect the Master at the address provided and skip initialization of a new instance.
This is useful if you have a particular host you'd like to run the Master on, which isn't part of
your Yarn cluster, like an AWS EMR Master Instance.

The script will launch an Alluxio Application Master on Yarn, which will then request containers for the
Alluxio master and workers. You can check the YARN UI in the browser to watch the status of the
Alluxio job.

Running the script will produce output containing something like

```
INFO impl.YarnClientImpl: Submitted application application_1445469376652_0002
```

This application ID can be used to destroy the application by running

```bash
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/bin/yarn application -kill application_1445469376652_0002
```

The ID can also be found in the YARN web UI.

## Test Alluxio

Once you have the Alluxio application running, you can check its health by configuring
`alluxio.master.hostname=masterhost` in `conf/alluxio-site.properties` and running

```bash
$ ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio runTests
```

Commit message:

Add todo for how to set application classpath

docs/en/deploy/Running-Alluxio-On-Yarn.md, after:

---
layout: global
title: Deploy Alluxio using YARN
nickname: Deploy Alluxio with YARN
group: Deploying Alluxio
priority: 6
---

TODO: Expand the explanation of why we prefer to run alongside YARN instead of on top. Relevant
mailing list thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/alluxio-users/KEvBE9AiJlE
TODO: Tell users how to configure Alluxio servers running on Yarn
TODO: Discuss how to configure the YARN application classpath so that applications can work with Alluxio.
TODO: Add troubleshooting help
- How to debug when alluxio-yarn.sh fails to bring up Alluxio servers
- How to find logs when Alluxio containers fail to start
- How to diagnose when there aren't enough YARN resources to launch Alluxio containers

## Standalone

Alluxio should be run alongside YARN so that all YARN nodes have access to a local Alluxio worker.
For YARN and Alluxio to play nicely together on the same nodes, you must partition the node's
memory and compute resources between YARN and Alluxio. To do this, first determine how much memory
and cpu will be needed by Alluxio, then subtract those resources from what YARN would otherwise use.

### Memory

In `yarn-site.xml`, set

```
yarn.nodemanager.resource.memory-mb = Total RAM - Other services RAM - Alluxio RAM
```

On Alluxio worker nodes, Alluxio RAM usage is 1GB plus the ramdisk size configured by
`alluxio.worker.memory.size`.
On Alluxio master nodes, Alluxio RAM usage is proportional to the number of files. Allocate at
least 1GB. 32GB is recommended for a production deployment.

### CPU vcores

In `yarn-site.xml`, set

```
yarn.nodemanager.resource.cpu-vcores = Total cores - Other services vcores - Alluxio vcores
```

On Alluxio worker nodes, Alluxio needs only one or two vcores.
On Alluxio master nodes, we recommend at least 4 vcores.

### Restart YARN

After updating the YARN configuration, restart YARN so that it picks up the changes:

```bash
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/sbin/stop-yarn.sh
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/sbin/start-yarn.sh
```

## Alluxio YARN integration

> YARN is not well-suited for long-running applications such as Alluxio. We recommend
following [these instructions](#Standalone.html) for running Alluxio
alongside YARN instead of as an application within YARN.

This section goes over how to run Alluxio servers (master and workers) on a Yarn
cluster.

## Prerequisites

**A running YARN cluster**

**[Alluxio downloaded locally](https://www.alluxio.org/download)**

## Configuration

To customize Alluxio master and worker with specific properties (e.g., tiered storage setup on each
worker), see [Configuration settings](Configuration-Settings.html). To ensure your configuration can be
read by both the ApplicationMaster and Alluxio master/workers, put `alluxio-site.properties` in
`/etc/alluxio/alluxio-site.properties`.

## Run Alluxio Application

Use the script `integration/yarn/bin/alluxio-yarn.sh` to start Alluxio. This script takes three arguments:

1. The total number of Alluxio workers to start. (required)
2. An HDFS path to distribute the binaries for Alluxio ApplicationMaster. (required)
3. The Yarn name for the node on which to run the Alluxio Master (optional, defaults to `${ALLUXIO_MASTER_HOSTNAME}`)

For example, to launch an Alluxio cluster with 3 worker nodes, where an HDFS temp directory is
`hdfs://${HDFS_MASTER}:9000/tmp/` and the master hostname is `${ALLUXIO_MASTER}`, you would run

```bash
$ # If Yarn does not reside in `HADOOP_HOME`, set the environment variable `YARN_HOME` to the base path of Yarn.
$ export HADOOP_HOME=<path to hadoop home>
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/bin/hadoop fs -mkdir hdfs://${HDFS_MASTER}:9000/tmp
$ ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/integration/yarn/bin/alluxio-yarn.sh 3 hdfs://${HDFS_MASTER}:9000/tmp/ ${ALLUXIO_MASTER}
```

You may also start the Alluxio Master node separately from Yarn in which case the above startup will
automatically detect the Master at the address provided and skip initialization of a new instance.
This is useful if you have a particular host you'd like to run the Master on, which isn't part of
your Yarn cluster, like an AWS EMR Master Instance.

The script will launch an Alluxio Application Master on Yarn, which will then request containers for the
Alluxio master and workers. You can check the YARN UI in the browser to watch the status of the
Alluxio job.

Running the script will produce output containing something like

```
INFO impl.YarnClientImpl: Submitted application application_1445469376652_0002
```

This application ID can be used to destroy the application by running

```bash
$ ${HADOOP_HOME}/bin/yarn application -kill application_1445469376652_0002
```

The ID can also be found in the YARN web UI.

## Test Alluxio

Once you have the Alluxio application running, you can check its health by configuring
`alluxio.master.hostname=masterhost` in `conf/alluxio-site.properties` and running

```bash
$ ${ALLUXIO_HOME}/bin/alluxio runTests
```
