docs/en/operation/Admin-CLI.md, before:

---
layout: global
title: Admin Command Line Interface
nickname: Admin CLI
group: Operations
priority: 2
---

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

Alluxio's admin command line interface provides admins with operations to manage the Alluxio filesystem.
You can invoke the following command line utility to get all the subcommands:

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin
Usage: alluxio fsadmin [generic options]
	 [backup [directory] [--local]]
	 [doctor [category]]
	 [getBlockInfo [blockId]]
	 [journal [checkpoint] [quorum]]
	 [metrics [clear]]
	 [pathConf [add] [show] [list] [remove]]
	 [report [category] [category args]]
	 [statelock]
	 [ufs [--mode <noAccess/readOnly/readWrite>] <ufsPath>]

```

## Operations

### backup

The `backup` command backs up all Alluxio metadata to the backup directory configured on the leader master.

Back up to the default backup folder `/alluxio_backups` of the root under storage system. 
This default backup directory can be configured by setting `alluxio.master.backup.directory`. 
```
./bin/alluxio fsadmin backup
Backup Host        : masters-1                          
Backup URI         : hdfs://masters-1:9000/alluxio_backups/alluxio-backup-2020-10-13-1602619110769.gz
Backup Entry Count : 4
```
Note that the user running the `backup` command need to have write permission to the backup folder of root under storage system.

Back up to a specific directory in the root under storage system.
```
./bin/alluxio fsadmin backup /alluxio/special_backups
Backup Host        : masters-1                          
Backup URI         : hdfs://masters-1:9000/alluxio/special_backups/alluxio-backup-2020-10-13-1602619216699.gz
Backup Entry Count : 4
```

Back up to a specific directory on the leading master's local filesystem.
```
./bin/alluxio fsadmin backup /opt/alluxio/backups/ --local
Backup Host        : AlluxioSandboxEJSC-masters-1                          
Backup URI         : file:///opt/alluxio/backups/alluxio-backup-2020-10-13-1602619298086.gz
Backup Entry Count : 4```

### journal
The `journal` command provides several sub-commands for journal management.

**quorum:** is used to query and manage embedded journal powered leader election.

```console
# Get information on existing state of the `MASTER` or `JOB_MASTER` leader election quorum.
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin journal quorum info -domain <MASTER | JOB_MASTER>
```

```console
# Remove a member from leader election quorum.
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin journal quorum remove -domain <MASTER | JOB_MASTER> -address <Member_Address>
```

**checkpoint:** is used to create a checkpoint in the primary master journal system.

This command is mainly used for debugging and to avoid master journal logs from growing unbounded.

Checkpointing requires a pause in master metadata changes, so use this command sparingly to avoid 
interfering with other users of the system.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin journal checkpoint
```

### doctor

The `doctor` command gives recommendations and warnings. It can diagnose inconsistent configurations
across different Alluxio nodes as well as alert the operator when worker storage volumes are missing.

```console
# shows server-side configuration errors and warnings
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin doctor configuration
# shows worker storage health errors and warnings
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin doctor storage
```

### getBlockInfo

The `getBlockInfo` command provides the block information and file path of a block id.
It is primarily intended to assist power users in debugging their system.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin getBlockInfo <block_id>
BlockInfo{id=16793993216, length=6, locations=[BlockLocation{workerId=8265394007253444396, address=WorkerNetAddress{host=local-mbp, rpcPort=29999, dataPort=29999, webPort=30000, domainSocketPath=, tieredIdentity=TieredIdentity(node=local-mbp, rack=null)}, tierAlias=MEM, mediumType=MEM}]}
This block belongs to file {id=16810770431, path=/test2}
```

### metrics

The `metrics` command provides operations for Alluxio metrics system.

The command `metrics clear`, will clear all metrics stored in the alluxio cluster.
This command is useful for collecting metrics for specific jobs and tests.
It should be used sparingly, since it will affect the current metrics reporting and can affect worker/client heartbeats
to the leading master.

If `--master` option is used, all the metrics stored in Alluxio leading master will be cleared.
If `--workers <WORKER_HOSTNAME_1>,<WORKER_HOSTNAME_2>` is used, metrics in specific workers will be cleared.

If you are clearing metrics on a large Alluxio cluster with many workers, you can use the `--parallelism <#>` option to
choose the `#` of workers to clear in parallel. For example, if your cluster has 200 workers, running with a
parallelism factor of 10 will clear execute the command on 10 workers at a time until all metrics are cleared.

```console
# Clear metrics of the whole alluxio cluster including leading master and workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear
# Clear metrics of alluxio leading master
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear --master
# Clear metrics of specific workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear --workers <WORKER_HOSTNAME_1>,<WORKER_HOSTNAME_2>
# Clear metrics of an alluxio cluster with many workers in parallel
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear --parallelism 10
```

### pathConf

The `pathConf` command manages [path defaults]({{ '/en/operation/Configuration.html' | relativize_url }}#path-defaults).

#### list

`pathConf list` lists paths configured with path defaults.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf list

/a
/b
```
The above command shows that there are path defaults set for paths with prefix `/a` and `/b`.

#### show

`pathConf show` shows path defaults for a specific path.

It has two modes:
1. without option `--all`, only show path defaults set for the specific path;
2. with option `--all`, show path defaults set for all paths that are prefixes of the specified path.

For example, suppose path defaults `property1=value1` is set for `/a`,
and `property2=value2` is set for `/a/b`.

Then without `--all`, only properties for `/a/b` are shown:
```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf show /a/b

property2=value2
```

With `--all`, since `/a` is a prefix of `/a/b`, properties for both `/a` and `/a/b` are shown:
```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf show --all /a/b

property1=value1
property2=value2
```

#### add

`pathConf add` adds or updates path defaults, only properties with scope equal to or broader than the
client scope can be set as path defaults.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf add --property property1=value1 --property property2=value2 /tmp
```

The above command adds two properties as path defaults for paths with prefix `/tmp`.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf add --property property1=value2 /tmp
```
The above command updates the value of `property1` from `value1` to `value2` for path defaults of `/tmp`.

#### remove

`pathConf remove` removes properties from path defaults for a path.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf remove --keys property1,property2 /tmp
```

The above command removes properties with key `property1` and `property2` from path
defaults for paths with prefix `/tmp`.

### report

The `report` command provides Alluxio running cluster information.

If no argument is passed in, `report` will report the leading master, worker number, and capacity information.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report
Alluxio cluster summary:
    Master Address: localhost:19998
    Zookeeper Enabled: false
    Live Workers: 1
    Lost Workers: 0
    Total Capacity: 10.45GB
    Used Capacity: 0B
    (only a subset of the results is shown)
```

`report capacity` will report Alluxio cluster capacity information for different subsets of workers:
* `-live` Live workers
* `-lost` Lost workers
* `-workers <worker_names>` Specified workers, host names or ip addresses separated by `,`.

```console
# Capacity information of all workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report capacity
# Capacity information of live workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report capacity -live
# Capacity information of specified workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report capacity -workers AlluxioWorker1,127.0.0.1
```

`report metrics` will report the metrics stored in the leading master which includes
leading master process metrics and aggregated cluster metrics.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report metrics
```

`report ufs` will report all the mounted under storage system information of Alluxio cluster.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report ufs
Alluxio under storage system information:
hdfs://localhost:9000/ on / (hdfs, capacity=-1B, used=-1B, not read-only, not shared, properties={})
```

`report jobservice` will report a summary of the job service.

```console
$ bin/alluxio fsadmin report jobservice
Worker: MigrationTest-workers-2  Task Pool Size: 10     Unfinished Tasks: 1303   Active Tasks: 10     Load Avg: 1.08, 0.64, 0.27
Worker: MigrationTest-workers-3  Task Pool Size: 10     Unfinished Tasks: 1766   Active Tasks: 10     Load Avg: 1.02, 0.48, 0.21
Worker: MigrationTest-workers-1  Task Pool Size: 10     Unfinished Tasks: 1808   Active Tasks: 10     Load Avg: 0.73, 0.5, 0.23

Status: CREATED   Count: 4877
Status: CANCELED  Count: 0
Status: FAILED    Count: 1
Status: RUNNING   Count: 0
Status: COMPLETED Count: 8124

10 Most Recently Modified Jobs:
Timestamp: 10-28-2020 22:02:34:001       Id: 1603922371976       Name: Persist             Status: COMPLETED
Timestamp: 10-28-2020 22:02:34:001       Id: 1603922371982       Name: Persist             Status: COMPLETED
(only a subset of the results is shown)

10 Most Recently Failed Jobs:
Timestamp: 10-24-2019 17:15:22:946       Id: 1603922372008       Name: Persist             Status: FAILED

10 Longest Running Jobs:
```

### statelock

The `statelock` command provides information about the waiters and holders of the alluxio statelock.
This command can help diagnose any long running requests issued by users or the Alluxio system.

### ufs

The `ufs` command provides options to update attributes of a mounted under storage. The option `mode` can be used
to put an under storage in maintenance mode. Certain operations can be restricted at this moment.

For example, an under storage can enter `readOnly` mode to disallow write operations. Alluxio will not attempt any
write operations on the under storage.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin ufs --mode readOnly hdfs://ns
```

The `fsadmin ufs` subcommand takes a UFS URI as an argument. The argument should be a root
UFS URI like `hdfs://<name-service>/`, and not `hdfs://<name-service>/<folder>`.

Commit message:

Port changes of [#15749] to branch-2.6
Some of the documentation on the website and in the CLI is missing
information about `--bypass-delegation`.
Followup to #15110.

[This is an manually generated PR to cherry-pick committed PR
Alluxio/alluxio#15749 into target branch branch-2.6]

pr-link: Alluxio/alluxio#15753
change-id: cid-570e39cfefd6c6a0d1e9dfcfd5fe358adf5f8cf1

docs/en/operation/Admin-CLI.md, after:

---
layout: global
title: Admin Command Line Interface
nickname: Admin CLI
group: Operations
priority: 2
---

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

Alluxio's admin command line interface provides admins with operations to manage the Alluxio filesystem.
You can invoke the following command line utility to get all the subcommands:

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin
Usage: alluxio fsadmin [generic options]
	 [backup [directory] [--local]]
	 [doctor [category]]
	 [getBlockInfo [blockId]]
	 [journal [checkpoint] [quorum]]
	 [metrics [clear]]
	 [pathConf [add] [show] [list] [remove]]
	 [report [category] [category args]]
	 [statelock]
	 [ufs [--mode <noAccess/readOnly/readWrite>] <ufsPath>]

```

## Operations

### backup

The `backup` command backs up all Alluxio metadata to the backup directory configured on the leader master.

Back up to the default backup folder `/alluxio_backups` of the root under storage system. 
This default backup directory can be configured by setting `alluxio.master.backup.directory`. 
```
./bin/alluxio fsadmin backup
Backup Host        : masters-1                          
Backup URI         : hdfs://masters-1:9000/alluxio_backups/alluxio-backup-2020-10-13-1602619110769.gz
Backup Entry Count : 4
```
Note that the user running the `backup` command need to have write permission to the backup folder of root under storage system.

Back up to a specific directory in the root under storage system.
```
./bin/alluxio fsadmin backup /alluxio/special_backups
Backup Host        : masters-1                          
Backup URI         : hdfs://masters-1:9000/alluxio/special_backups/alluxio-backup-2020-10-13-1602619216699.gz
Backup Entry Count : 4
```

Back up to a specific directory on the leading master's local filesystem.
```
./bin/alluxio fsadmin backup /opt/alluxio/backups/ --local
Backup Host        : AlluxioSandboxEJSC-masters-1                          
Backup URI         : file:///opt/alluxio/backups/alluxio-backup-2020-10-13-1602619298086.gz
Backup Entry Count : 4```

Allow the leading master to take a backup if no standby masters are available.
```shell
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin backup --allow-leader
```

Force the leading master to take the backup even if standby masters are available.
```shell
$ bin/alluxio fsadmin backup --bypass-delegation
```

### journal
The `journal` command provides several sub-commands for journal management.

**quorum:** is used to query and manage embedded journal powered leader election.

```console
# Get information on existing state of the `MASTER` or `JOB_MASTER` leader election quorum.
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin journal quorum info -domain <MASTER | JOB_MASTER>
```

```console
# Remove a member from leader election quorum.
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin journal quorum remove -domain <MASTER | JOB_MASTER> -address <Member_Address>
```

**checkpoint:** is used to create a checkpoint in the primary master journal system.

This command is mainly used for debugging and to avoid master journal logs from growing unbounded.

Checkpointing requires a pause in master metadata changes, so use this command sparingly to avoid 
interfering with other users of the system.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin journal checkpoint
```

### doctor

The `doctor` command gives recommendations and warnings. It can diagnose inconsistent configurations
across different Alluxio nodes as well as alert the operator when worker storage volumes are missing.

```console
# shows server-side configuration errors and warnings
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin doctor configuration
# shows worker storage health errors and warnings
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin doctor storage
```

### getBlockInfo

The `getBlockInfo` command provides the block information and file path of a block id.
It is primarily intended to assist power users in debugging their system.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin getBlockInfo <block_id>
BlockInfo{id=16793993216, length=6, locations=[BlockLocation{workerId=8265394007253444396, address=WorkerNetAddress{host=local-mbp, rpcPort=29999, dataPort=29999, webPort=30000, domainSocketPath=, tieredIdentity=TieredIdentity(node=local-mbp, rack=null)}, tierAlias=MEM, mediumType=MEM}]}
This block belongs to file {id=16810770431, path=/test2}
```

### metrics

The `metrics` command provides operations for Alluxio metrics system.

The command `metrics clear`, will clear all metrics stored in the alluxio cluster.
This command is useful for collecting metrics for specific jobs and tests.
It should be used sparingly, since it will affect the current metrics reporting and can affect worker/client heartbeats
to the leading master.

If `--master` option is used, all the metrics stored in Alluxio leading master will be cleared.
If `--workers <WORKER_HOSTNAME_1>,<WORKER_HOSTNAME_2>` is used, metrics in specific workers will be cleared.

If you are clearing metrics on a large Alluxio cluster with many workers, you can use the `--parallelism <#>` option to
choose the `#` of workers to clear in parallel. For example, if your cluster has 200 workers, running with a
parallelism factor of 10 will clear execute the command on 10 workers at a time until all metrics are cleared.

```console
# Clear metrics of the whole alluxio cluster including leading master and workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear
# Clear metrics of alluxio leading master
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear --master
# Clear metrics of specific workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear --workers <WORKER_HOSTNAME_1>,<WORKER_HOSTNAME_2>
# Clear metrics of an alluxio cluster with many workers in parallel
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin metrics clear --parallelism 10
```

### pathConf

The `pathConf` command manages [path defaults]({{ '/en/operation/Configuration.html' | relativize_url }}#path-defaults).

#### list

`pathConf list` lists paths configured with path defaults.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf list

/a
/b
```
The above command shows that there are path defaults set for paths with prefix `/a` and `/b`.

#### show

`pathConf show` shows path defaults for a specific path.

It has two modes:
1. without option `--all`, only show path defaults set for the specific path;
2. with option `--all`, show path defaults set for all paths that are prefixes of the specified path.

For example, suppose path defaults `property1=value1` is set for `/a`,
and `property2=value2` is set for `/a/b`.

Then without `--all`, only properties for `/a/b` are shown:
```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf show /a/b

property2=value2
```

With `--all`, since `/a` is a prefix of `/a/b`, properties for both `/a` and `/a/b` are shown:
```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf show --all /a/b

property1=value1
property2=value2
```

#### add

`pathConf add` adds or updates path defaults, only properties with scope equal to or broader than the
client scope can be set as path defaults.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf add --property property1=value1 --property property2=value2 /tmp
```

The above command adds two properties as path defaults for paths with prefix `/tmp`.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf add --property property1=value2 /tmp
```
The above command updates the value of `property1` from `value1` to `value2` for path defaults of `/tmp`.

#### remove

`pathConf remove` removes properties from path defaults for a path.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin pathConf remove --keys property1,property2 /tmp
```

The above command removes properties with key `property1` and `property2` from path
defaults for paths with prefix `/tmp`.

### report

The `report` command provides Alluxio running cluster information.

If no argument is passed in, `report` will report the leading master, worker number, and capacity information.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report
Alluxio cluster summary:
    Master Address: localhost:19998
    Zookeeper Enabled: false
    Live Workers: 1
    Lost Workers: 0
    Total Capacity: 10.45GB
    Used Capacity: 0B
    (only a subset of the results is shown)
```

`report capacity` will report Alluxio cluster capacity information for different subsets of workers:
* `-live` Live workers
* `-lost` Lost workers
* `-workers <worker_names>` Specified workers, host names or ip addresses separated by `,`.

```console
# Capacity information of all workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report capacity
# Capacity information of live workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report capacity -live
# Capacity information of specified workers
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report capacity -workers AlluxioWorker1,127.0.0.1
```

`report metrics` will report the metrics stored in the leading master which includes
leading master process metrics and aggregated cluster metrics.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report metrics
```

`report ufs` will report all the mounted under storage system information of Alluxio cluster.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin report ufs
Alluxio under storage system information:
hdfs://localhost:9000/ on / (hdfs, capacity=-1B, used=-1B, not read-only, not shared, properties={})
```

`report jobservice` will report a summary of the job service.

```console
$ bin/alluxio fsadmin report jobservice
Worker: MigrationTest-workers-2  Task Pool Size: 10     Unfinished Tasks: 1303   Active Tasks: 10     Load Avg: 1.08, 0.64, 0.27
Worker: MigrationTest-workers-3  Task Pool Size: 10     Unfinished Tasks: 1766   Active Tasks: 10     Load Avg: 1.02, 0.48, 0.21
Worker: MigrationTest-workers-1  Task Pool Size: 10     Unfinished Tasks: 1808   Active Tasks: 10     Load Avg: 0.73, 0.5, 0.23

Status: CREATED   Count: 4877
Status: CANCELED  Count: 0
Status: FAILED    Count: 1
Status: RUNNING   Count: 0
Status: COMPLETED Count: 8124

10 Most Recently Modified Jobs:
Timestamp: 10-28-2020 22:02:34:001       Id: 1603922371976       Name: Persist             Status: COMPLETED
Timestamp: 10-28-2020 22:02:34:001       Id: 1603922371982       Name: Persist             Status: COMPLETED
(only a subset of the results is shown)

10 Most Recently Failed Jobs:
Timestamp: 10-24-2019 17:15:22:946       Id: 1603922372008       Name: Persist             Status: FAILED

10 Longest Running Jobs:
```

### statelock

The `statelock` command provides information about the waiters and holders of the alluxio statelock.
This command can help diagnose any long running requests issued by users or the Alluxio system.

### ufs

The `ufs` command provides options to update attributes of a mounted under storage. The option `mode` can be used
to put an under storage in maintenance mode. Certain operations can be restricted at this moment.

For example, an under storage can enter `readOnly` mode to disallow write operations. Alluxio will not attempt any
write operations on the under storage.

```console
$ ./bin/alluxio fsadmin ufs --mode readOnly hdfs://ns
```

The `fsadmin ufs` subcommand takes a UFS URI as an argument. The argument should be a root
UFS URI like `hdfs://<name-service>/`, and not `hdfs://<name-service>/<folder>`.
