docs/en/operation/Troubleshooting.md, before:

---
layout: global
title: Troubleshooting
group: Operations
priority: 0
---

TODO(Feng): Review existing content and add new content for common problems we've seen

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

This page is a collection of high-level guides and tips regarding how to diagnose issues encountered in
Alluxio.

Note: this doc is not intended to be the full list of Alluxio questions.
Feel free to post questions on the [Alluxio Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/alluxio-users).

## Where are the Alluxio logs?

Alluxio generates Master, Worker and Client logs under the dir `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/logs`. They are
named as `master.log`, `master.out`, `worker.log`, `worker.out` and `user_${USER}.log`. The file
with suffix `log` are generated by log4j, the file with suffix `out` are generated by redirect the
stdout and stderr.

The master and worker logs are very useful to understand what happened in Alluxio Master and
Workers, when you ran into any issues. If you do not understand the error messages,
try to search them in the [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/alluxio-users),
in case the problem has been discussed before.

## Alluxio remote debug

Usually, Alluxio does not run on the development environment, which makes it difficult to debug Alluxio. We locate problem's method is 'log-build-deploy-scanlog', the efficiency of the problem localization is low and need to modify the code and trigger new deployment, which is not allowed in some time.

Java remote debugging technology can make it simple to debug Alluxio in source level without modify any source. You need to append the JVM remote debugging parameters and then start debugging server. There are several ways to append the remote debugging parameters, you can export the properties in shell or `alluxio-env.sh`, add the following configuration properties.

```bash
export ALLUXIO_WORKER_JAVA_OPTS="$ALLUXIO_JAVA_OPTS -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=6606"
export ALLUXIO_MASTER_JAVA_OPTS="$ALLUXIO_JAVA_OPTS -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=6607"
export ALLUXIO_USER_DEBUG_JAVA_OPTS="-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=y,address=6609"
```

Specially, if you want to debug shell command, you can add the `-debug` flag to start a debug server with the jvm debug parameters `ALLUXIO_USER_DEBUG_JAVA_OPTS`. Such as `alluxio fs -debug ls /`.

`suspend = y/n` will decide whether the JVM process wait until the debugger connects. If you want to debug with the shell command, set the `suspend = y`. Otherwise, you can set `suspend = n` so that avoid unnecessary waiting time.

After start the master or worker, use eclipse or IntelliJ idea and other java ide, new a java remote configuration, set the debug server's host and port, then start debug session. If you set a breakpoint which can be reached, the ide will enter debug mode, you can read and write the current context's variables, call stack, thread list, expression evaluation. You can also execute debugging control instrument, such as 'step into', 'step over', 'resume', 'suspend' and so on. If you get this skill, you will locate problem faster, and will impressed by the source code you have debugged.

## Setup FAQ

### Q: I'm new to Alluxio and getting started. I failed to set up Alluxio on my local machine. What shall I do?

A: First check `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/logs` to see if there are any master or worker logs. Follow the clue
indicated by the error logs. Otherwise please double check if you missed any configuration
steps in [Running-Alluxio-Locally](Running-Alluxio-Locally.html).

Typical issues:
- `ALLUXIO_UNDERFS_ADDRESS` is not configured correctly.
- If `ssh localhost` failed, make sure the public ssh key for the host is added in `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.

### Q: I'm trying to deploy Alluxio in a cluster with Spark/HDFS. Are there any suggestions?

A: Please follow [Running-Alluxio-on-a-Cluster](Running-Alluxio-on-a-Cluster.html),
[Configuring-Alluxio-with-HDFS](Configuring-Alluxio-with-HDFS.html).

Tips:

- Usually, the best performance gains occur when Alluxio workers are co-located with the nodes of the computation frameworks.
- You can use Mesos and Yarn integration if you are already using Mesos or Yarn to manage your cluster. Using Mesos or Yarn can benefit management.
- If the under storage is remote (like S3 or remote HDFS), using Alluxio can be especially beneficial.

### Q: I'm having problems setting up Alluxio cluster on EC2. Can you advice?

A: Please follow [Running-Alluxio-on-EC2.html](Running-Alluxio-on-EC2.html) for details.

Typical issues:
- Please make sure AWS access keys and Key Pairs are set up.
- If the UnderFileSystem is S3, check the S3 bucket name in `ufs.yml` is the name of an existing
bucket, without the `s3a://` prefix.
- If you are not able to access the UI, please check that your security group allows incoming traffic on port 19999.


## Usage FAQ

### Q: Why do I see exceptions like "No FileSystem for scheme: alluxio"?

A: This error message is seen when your applications (e.g., MapReduce, Spark) try to access
Alluxio as an HDFS-compatible file system, but the `alluxio://` scheme is not recognized by the
application. Please make sure your HDFS configuration file `core-site.xml` (in your default hadoop
installation or `spark/conf/` if you customize this file for Spark) has the following property:

```xml
<configuration>
  <property>
    <name>fs.alluxio.impl</name>
    <value>alluxio.hadoop.FileSystem</value>
  </property>
</configuration>
```

### Q: Why do I see exceptions like "java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: Class alluxio.hadoop.FileSystem not found"?

A: This error message is seen when your applications (e.g., MapReduce, Spark) try to access
Alluxio as an HDFS-compatible file system, the `alluxio://` scheme has been
configured correctly but the Alluxio client jar is not found on the classpath of your application.
Depending on the computation frameworks, users usually need to add the Alluxio
client jar to their class path of the framework through environment variables or
properties on all nodes running this framework. Here are some examples:

- For MapReduce jobs, you can append the client jar to `$HADOOP_CLASSPATH`:

```bash
$ export HADOOP_CLASSPATH={{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}:${HADOOP_CLASSPATH}
```

- For Spark jobs, you can append the client jar to `$SPARK_CLASSPATH`:

```bash
$ export SPARK_CLASSPATH={{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}:${SPARK_CLASSPATH}
```

Alternatively, add the following lines to `spark/conf/spark-defaults.conf`:

```properties
spark.driver.extraClassPath {{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}
spark.executor.extraClassPath
{{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}
```

If the corresponding classpath has been set but exceptions still exist, users can check
whether the path is valid by:

```bash
$ ls {{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}
```

### Q: I'm seeing error messages like "Frame size (67108864) larger than max length (16777216)". What is wrong?

A: This problem can be caused by different possible reasons.

- Please double-check if the port of Alluxio master address is correct. The default listening port for Alluxio master is port 19998,
while a common mistake causing this error message is due to using a wrong port in master address(e.g., using port 19999 which is the default Web UI port for Alluxio master).
- Please ensure that the security settings of Alluxio client and master are consistent.
Alluxio provides different approaches to [authenticate](Security.html#authentication) users by configuring `alluxio.security.authentication.type`.
This error happens if this property is configured with different values across servers and clients
(e.g., one uses the default value `NOSASL` while the other is customized to `SIMPLE`).
Please read [Configuration-Settings](Configuration-Settings.html) for how to customize Alluxio clusters and applications.

### Q: I'm copying or writing data to Alluxio while seeing error messages like "Failed to cache: Not enough space to store block on worker". Why?

A: This error indicates insufficient space left on Alluxio workers to complete your write request.

- For Alluxio version 1.6.0 and above, `copyFromLocal` uses `RoundRobinPolicy` by default.
You can change the location policy for this command by changing `alluxio.user.file.copyfromlocal.write.location.policy.class` property.

    Before version 1.6.0, if you are copying a file to Alluxio using `copyFromLocal`, by default this shell command applies `LocalFirstPolicy`
and stores data on the local worker (see [location policy](File-System-API.html#location-policy)).
In this case, you will see the above error once the local worker does not have enough space.
To distribute the data of your file on different workers, you can change this policy to `RoundRobinPolicy` (see below).

```bash
$ bin/alluxio fs -Dalluxio.user.file.write.location.policy.class=alluxio.client.file.policy.RoundRobinPolicy copyFromLocal foo /alluxio/path/foo
```


- Check if you have any files unnecessarily pinned in memory and unpin them to release space.
See [Command-Line-Interface](Command-Line-Interface.html) for more details.
- Increase the capacity of workers by changing `alluxio.worker.memory.size` property.
See [Configuration](Configuration-Settings.html#common-configuration) for more description.


### Q: I'm writing a new file/directory to Alluxio and seeing journal errors in my application

A: When you see errors like "Failed to replace a bad datanode on the existing pipeline due to no more good datanodes being available to try",
it is because Alluxio master failed to update journal files stored in a HDFS directory according to
the property `alluxio.master.journal.folder` setting. There can be multiple reasons for this type of errors, typically because
some HDFS datanodes serving the journal files are under heavy load or running out of disk space. Please ensure the
HDFS deployment is connected and healthy for Alluxio to store journals when the journal directory is set to be in HDFS.

### Q: I'm seeing that client connection was rejected by master

A: When you see errors from applications like `"alluxio.exception.status.UnavailableException:
Failed to connect to BlockMasterClient @ hostname:19998 after 13 attempts"` and also find the
following warning messages in `logs/master.log`: `"WARN  TThreadPoolServer - Task has been rejected by
ExecutorService 9 times till timedout, reason: java.util.concurrent.RejectedExecutionException:
Task org.apache.thrift.server.TThreadPoolServer$WorkerProcess@22fba58c rejected from
java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor@19593091[Running, pool size = 2048, active threads = 2048,
queued tasks = 0, completed tasks = 14]"`, it indicates that the Alluxio master server has run out
of its thread pool to serve new incoming client requests.

To solve this issue, you can try:
- Increase the thread pool size on the master to serve client requests by increasing
`alluxio.master.worker.threads.max`. You can set this property to a larger value in
`conf/alluxio-site.properties`. Note that, this value should be no larger than the number of max
open files allowed by the system allows. One can check the system limit using `"ulimit -n"` on Linux
or [other approaches](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/880557/socket-accept-too-many-open-files)
- Decrease the connection pool size on the client to send requests to master by decreasing
`alluxio.user.block.master.client.threads` (default to 10) and
`alluxio.user.file.master.client.threads` (default to 10). You can set this property to a smaller
value in `conf/alluxio-site.properties`. Note that, reducing the value of these two properties may
potentially add latency for master to serve requests.


## Performance FAQ

### Q: I tested Alluxio/Spark against HDFS/Spark (running simple word count of GBs of files). There is no discernible performance difference. Why?

A: Alluxio accelerates your system performance by leveraging temporal or spatial locality using distributed in-memory storage
(and tiered storage). If your workloads don't have any locality, you will not see tremendous performance boost.

## Environment

Alluxio can be configured under a variety of modes, in different production environments.
Please make sure the Alluxio version being deployed is update-to-date and supported.

When posting questions on the [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/alluxio-users),
please attach the full environment information, including
- Alluxio version
- OS version
- Java version
- UnderFileSystem type and version
- Computing framework type and version
- Cluster information, e.g. the number of nodes, memory size in each node, intra-datacenter or cross-datacenter

Commit message:

Add todos for troubleshooting page

docs/en/operation/Troubleshooting.md, after:

---
layout: global
title: Troubleshooting
group: Operations
priority: 0
---

TODO(Feng): Review existing content and add new content for common problems we've seen

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

This page is a collection of high-level guides and tips regarding how to diagnose issues encountered in
Alluxio.

Note: this doc is not intended to be the full list of Alluxio questions.
Feel free to post questions on the [Alluxio Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/alluxio-users).

## Where are the Alluxio logs?

Alluxio generates Master, Worker and Client logs under the dir `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/logs`. They are
named as `master.log`, `master.out`, `worker.log`, `worker.out` and `user_${USER}.log`. The file
with suffix `log` are generated by log4j, the file with suffix `out` are generated by redirect the
stdout and stderr.

The master and worker logs are very useful to understand what happened in Alluxio Master and
Workers, when you ran into any issues. If you do not understand the error messages,
try to search them in the [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/alluxio-users),
in case the problem has been discussed before.

TODO(feng): brifely talk about client side logging and point user to the [logging page](https://github.com/Alluxio/alluxio/blob/doc-restructure/docs/en/operation/Logging-Conventions.md).

## Alluxio remote debug

Usually, Alluxio does not run on the development environment, which makes it difficult to debug Alluxio. We locate problem's method is 'log-build-deploy-scanlog', the efficiency of the problem localization is low and need to modify the code and trigger new deployment, which is not allowed in some time.

Java remote debugging technology can make it simple to debug Alluxio in source level without modify any source. You need to append the JVM remote debugging parameters and then start debugging server. There are several ways to append the remote debugging parameters, you can export the properties in shell or `alluxio-env.sh`, add the following configuration properties.

```bash
export ALLUXIO_WORKER_JAVA_OPTS="$ALLUXIO_JAVA_OPTS -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=6606"
export ALLUXIO_MASTER_JAVA_OPTS="$ALLUXIO_JAVA_OPTS -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=6607"
export ALLUXIO_USER_DEBUG_JAVA_OPTS="-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=y,address=6609"
```

Specially, if you want to debug shell command, you can add the `-debug` flag to start a debug server with the jvm debug parameters `ALLUXIO_USER_DEBUG_JAVA_OPTS`. Such as `alluxio fs -debug ls /`.

`suspend = y/n` will decide whether the JVM process wait until the debugger connects. If you want to debug with the shell command, set the `suspend = y`. Otherwise, you can set `suspend = n` so that avoid unnecessary waiting time.

After start the master or worker, use eclipse or IntelliJ idea and other java IDE, new a java remote configuration, set the debug server's host and port, then start debug session. If you set a breakpoint which can be reached, the ide will enter debug mode, you can read and write the current context's variables, call stack, thread list, expression evaluation. You can also execute debugging control instrument, such as 'step into', 'step over', 'resume', 'suspend' and so on. If you get this skill, you will locate problem faster, and will impressed by the source code you have debugged.

## Setup FAQ

### Q: I'm new to Alluxio and getting started. I failed to set up Alluxio on my local machine. What shall I do?

A: First check `${ALLUXIO_HOME}/logs` to see if there are any master or worker logs. Follow the clue
indicated by the error logs. Otherwise please double check if you missed any configuration
steps in [Running-Alluxio-Locally](Running-Alluxio-Locally.html).

Typical issues:
- `ALLUXIO_UNDERFS_ADDRESS` is not configured correctly.
- If `ssh localhost` failed, make sure the public ssh key for the host is added in `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.

### Q: I'm trying to deploy Alluxio in a cluster with Spark/HDFS. Are there any suggestions?

A: Please follow [Running-Alluxio-on-a-Cluster](Running-Alluxio-on-a-Cluster.html),
[Configuring-Alluxio-with-HDFS](Configuring-Alluxio-with-HDFS.html).

Tips:

- Usually, the best performance gains occur when Alluxio workers are co-located with the nodes of the computation frameworks.
- You can use Mesos and Yarn integration if you are already using Mesos or Yarn to manage your cluster. Using Mesos or Yarn can benefit management.
- If the under storage is remote (like S3 or remote HDFS), using Alluxio can be especially beneficial.

### Q: I'm having problems setting up Alluxio cluster on EC2. Can you advice?

A: Please follow [Running-Alluxio-on-EC2.html](Running-Alluxio-on-EC2.html) for details.

Typical issues:
- Please make sure AWS access keys and Key Pairs are set up.
- If the UnderFileSystem is S3, check the S3 bucket name in `ufs.yml` is the name of an existing
bucket, without the `s3a://` prefix.
- If you are not able to access the UI, please check that your security group allows incoming traffic on port 19999.

TODO(feng) add a section for "Unsupported major.minor version 52.0" java issue.


## Usage FAQ

### Q: Why do I see exceptions like "No FileSystem for scheme: alluxio"?

A: This error message is seen when your applications (e.g., MapReduce, Spark) try to access
Alluxio as an HDFS-compatible file system, but the `alluxio://` scheme is not recognized by the
application. Please make sure your HDFS configuration file `core-site.xml` (in your default hadoop
installation or `spark/conf/` if you customize this file for Spark) has the following property:

```xml
<configuration>
  <property>
    <name>fs.alluxio.impl</name>
    <value>alluxio.hadoop.FileSystem</value>
  </property>
</configuration>
```

### Q: Why do I see exceptions like "java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: Class alluxio.hadoop.FileSystem not found"?

A: This error message is seen when your applications (e.g., MapReduce, Spark) try to access
Alluxio as an HDFS-compatible file system, the `alluxio://` scheme has been
configured correctly but the Alluxio client jar is not found on the classpath of your application.
Depending on the computation frameworks, users usually need to add the Alluxio
client jar to their class path of the framework through environment variables or
properties on all nodes running this framework. Here are some examples:

- For MapReduce jobs, you can append the client jar to `$HADOOP_CLASSPATH`:

```bash
$ export HADOOP_CLASSPATH={{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}:${HADOOP_CLASSPATH}
```

- For Spark jobs, you can append the client jar to `$SPARK_CLASSPATH`:

```bash
$ export SPARK_CLASSPATH={{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}:${SPARK_CLASSPATH}
```

Alternatively, add the following lines to `spark/conf/spark-defaults.conf`:

```properties
spark.driver.extraClassPath {{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}
spark.executor.extraClassPath
{{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}
```

If the corresponding classpath has been set but exceptions still exist, users can check
whether the path is valid by:

```bash
$ ls {{site.ALLUXIO_CLIENT_JAR_PATH}}
```

### Q: I'm seeing error messages like "Frame size (67108864) larger than max length (16777216)". What is wrong?

A: This problem can be caused by different possible reasons.

- Please double-check if the port of Alluxio master address is correct. The default listening port for Alluxio master is port 19998,
while a common mistake causing this error message is due to using a wrong port in master address(e.g., using port 19999 which is the default Web UI port for Alluxio master).
- Please ensure that the security settings of Alluxio client and master are consistent.
Alluxio provides different approaches to [authenticate](Security.html#authentication) users by configuring `alluxio.security.authentication.type`.
This error happens if this property is configured with different values across servers and clients
(e.g., one uses the default value `NOSASL` while the other is customized to `SIMPLE`).
Please read [Configuration-Settings](Configuration-Settings.html) for how to customize Alluxio clusters and applications.

### Q: I'm copying or writing data to Alluxio while seeing error messages like "Failed to cache: Not enough space to store block on worker". Why?

A: This error indicates insufficient space left on Alluxio workers to complete your write request.

- For Alluxio version 1.6.0 and above, `copyFromLocal` uses `RoundRobinPolicy` by default.
You can change the location policy for this command by changing `alluxio.user.file.copyfromlocal.write.location.policy.class` property.

    Before version 1.6.0, if you are copying a file to Alluxio using `copyFromLocal`, by default this shell command applies `LocalFirstPolicy`
and stores data on the local worker (see [location policy](File-System-API.html#location-policy)).
In this case, you will see the above error once the local worker does not have enough space.
To distribute the data of your file on different workers, you can change this policy to `RoundRobinPolicy` (see below).

```bash
$ bin/alluxio fs -Dalluxio.user.file.write.location.policy.class=alluxio.client.file.policy.RoundRobinPolicy copyFromLocal foo /alluxio/path/foo
```


- Check if you have any files unnecessarily pinned in memory and unpin them to release space.
See [Command-Line-Interface](Command-Line-Interface.html) for more details.
- Increase the capacity of workers by changing `alluxio.worker.memory.size` property.
See [Configuration](Configuration-Settings.html#common-configuration) for more description.


### Q: I'm writing a new file/directory to Alluxio and seeing journal errors in my application

A: When you see errors like "Failed to replace a bad datanode on the existing pipeline due to no more good datanodes being available to try",
it is because Alluxio master failed to update journal files stored in a HDFS directory according to
the property `alluxio.master.journal.folder` setting. There can be multiple reasons for this type of errors, typically because
some HDFS datanodes serving the journal files are under heavy load or running out of disk space. Please ensure the
HDFS deployment is connected and healthy for Alluxio to store journals when the journal directory is set to be in HDFS.

### Q: I'm seeing that client connection was rejected by master

A: When you see errors from applications like `"alluxio.exception.status.UnavailableException:
Failed to connect to BlockMasterClient @ hostname:19998 after 13 attempts"` and also find the
following warning messages in `logs/master.log`: `"WARN  TThreadPoolServer - Task has been rejected by
ExecutorService 9 times till timedout, reason: java.util.concurrent.RejectedExecutionException:
Task org.apache.thrift.server.TThreadPoolServer$WorkerProcess@22fba58c rejected from
java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor@19593091[Running, pool size = 2048, active threads = 2048,
queued tasks = 0, completed tasks = 14]"`, it indicates that the Alluxio master server has run out
of its thread pool to serve new incoming client requests.

To solve this issue, you can try:
- Increase the thread pool size on the master to serve client requests by increasing
`alluxio.master.worker.threads.max`. You can set this property to a larger value in
`conf/alluxio-site.properties`. Note that, this value should be no larger than the number of max
open files allowed by the system allows. One can check the system limit using `"ulimit -n"` on Linux
or [other approaches](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/880557/socket-accept-too-many-open-files)
- Decrease the connection pool size on the client to send requests to master by decreasing
`alluxio.user.block.master.client.threads` (default to 10) and
`alluxio.user.file.master.client.threads` (default to 10). You can set this property to a smaller
value in `conf/alluxio-site.properties`. Note that, reducing the value of these two properties may
potentially add latency for master to serve requests.

TODO(feng) add a section about discover file updates in under fs.

TODO(feng) add a section about missing blocks and different write types.

TODO(feng) add a section for hanging commands

## Performance FAQ
TODO(feng): Point user to the performance tuning page.
### Q: I tested Alluxio/Spark against HDFS/Spark (running simple word count of GBs of files). There is no discernible performance difference. Why?

A: Alluxio accelerates your system performance by leveraging temporal or spatial locality using distributed in-memory storage
(and tiered storage). If your workloads don't have any locality, you will not see tremendous performance boost.

## Environment

Alluxio can be configured under a variety of modes, in different production environments.
Please make sure the Alluxio version being deployed is update-to-date and supported.

When posting questions on the [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/alluxio-users),
please attach the full environment information, including
- Alluxio version
- OS version
- Java version
- UnderFileSystem type and version
- Computing framework type and version
- Cluster information, e.g. the number of nodes, memory size in each node, intra-datacenter or cross-datacenter
