---
layout: global
title: Metrics System
group: Features
priority: 3
---

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

Metrics provide an insight into what is going on in the cluster. They are an invaluable resource for
monitoring and debugging. Tachyon has a configurable metrics system based on the [Coda Hale Metrics 
Library](https://github.com/dropwizard/metrics). In the metrics system, metrics sources are where 
the metrics generated, and metrics sinks consume the records generated by the metrics sources. 
The metrics system polls the metrics sources periodically and passes the metrics records to 
the metrics sinks.

Tachyon's metrics are partitioned into different instances corresponding to Tachyon components.
Within each instance, users can configure a set of sinks to which metrics are reported. The
following instances are currently supported:

* Master: The Tachyon standalone master process.
* Worker: The Tachyon standalone worker process.

Each instance can report to zero or more sinks.

* ConsoleSink: Outputs metrics values to the console.
* CsvSink: Exports metrics data to CSV files at regular intervals.
* JmxSink: Registers metrics for viewing in a JMX console.
* GraphiteSink: Sends metrics to a Graphite server.
* MetricsServlet: Adds a servlet in Web UI to serve metrics data as JSON data.

Some metrics like `BytesReadLocal` rely on data collected from client heartbeat. To get the accurate 
metrics data, the client is expected to properly close the `TachyonFileSystem` client after using it.

# Configuration
The metrics system is configured via a configuration file that Tachyon expects to be present at
`$TACHYON_HOME/conf/metrics.properties`. A custom file location can be specified via the
`tachyon.metrics.conf.file` configuration property. Tachyon provides a metrics.properties.template
under the conf directory which includes all configurable properties. By default, MetricsServlet
is enabled and you can send HTTP request "/metrics/json" to get a snapshot of all the registered
metrics in JSON format.

# Supported Metrics

The following shows the details of the available metrics.

### Master

* CapacityTotal: Total capacity of the file system in bytes.
* CapacityUsed: Used capacity of the file system in bytes.
* CapacityFree: Free capacity of the file system in bytes.
* UnderFsCapacityTotal: Total capacity of the under file system in bytes.
* UnderFsCapacityUsed: Used capacity of the under file system in bytes.
* UnderFsCapacityFree: Free capacity of the under file system in bytes.
* Workers: Number of the workers.
* FilesTotal: Total number of files and directories in the file system.
* FilesCheckpointed: Total number of the files checkpointed.
* FilesCreated: Total number of files and directories created.
* FilesDeleted: Total number of files and directories deleted.
* FilesPinned: Total number of the files pinned.
* FilesRenamed: Total number of file and directories renamed.
* CreateFileOps: Total number of the CreateFile operations.
* DeleteFileOps: Total number of the DeleteFile operations.
* GetFileStatusOps: Total number of the getClientFileInfo operations.
* RenameFileOps: Total number of the RenameFile operations.

### Worker

* CapacityTotal: Total capacity of the worker in bytes.
* CapacityUsed: Used capacity of the worker in bytes.
* CapacityFree: Free capacity of the worker in bytes.
* BlocksAccessed: Total number of the blocks accessed.
* BlocksCached: Total number of blocks cached.
* BlocksCanceled: Total number of blocks canceled.
* BlocksDeleted: Total number of blocks deleted.
* BlocksEvicted: Total number of blocks evicted.
* BlocksPromoted: Total number of blocks promoted.
* BlocksReadLocal: Total number of blocks read locally from the worker.
* BlocksReadRemote: Total number of blocks read remotely from the worker.
* BlocksWrittenLocal: Total number of blocks written to the worker locally.
* BytesReadLocal: Total number of bytes read locally from the worker.
* BytesReadRemote: Total number of bytes read remotely from the worker.
* BytesReadUfs: Total number of bytes read from under file system on the worker.
* BytesWrittenLocal: Total number of bytes written to the worker locally.
* BytesWrittenUfs: Total number of bytes written to under file system on the worker.
